---
layout: post
title:  "Pre-alpha"
---
In the past few months we created an application which can decompile
16bit real mode applications to C. As a result we can produce C code
from the Dune2 binary. Together with a DOS emulation layer, we can
create a working Dune2. This will be our initial version.\
From this version we will slowly grow to a cross-platform, real C
application. Of course it will take a lot of time to get there, but we
have that time.

Currently, we have a big problem with the overlays used in Dune2, which
doesn’t allow us to create a static version of Dune2 (we do have a
working version when we attach a JIT). Till this problem is solved, we
won’t release any source. We of course hope to solve this problem soon,
but it is pretty complex.\
If you have any questions, suggestions, ideas, please post them here or
in the appropriate subforum. Your opinion counts, so don’t be shy.

#### Update:
<!--more-->
Today I fixed most of the overlay problems. So, as promised, I hereby
give the first teaser.\
It is far from perfect, but I just wanted to share the Westwood logo
showing up, and the Virgin logo showing up. If you click twice (yes,
twice, as I said, far from perfect 😉 ), you will see the menu. If you
are lucky you can hit Exit too, but most likely the application aborted
before that. Don’t worry, most of those problems are due to the fact you
did something the application doesn’t know how to handle yet in static
form.\
Please don’t send me bug reports about this binary: I already know about
them 😉 Oh, and don’t press any keys :p

It also segfaults from time to time due to stack overflow. Just so you
know. This happens because it waits for the timer to tick, and sadly
enough on most modern CPUs your C-stack runs out before that is
happening. I am fixing those when I find them.

That said, I also only publish the linux-only binaries for now. This is
due to the fact I haven’t gotten there yet to port it to Windows 😀
(which is relative easy, but you need to do it).

In conclusion, on request, I also added the source files. Yes, the
source is ugly. Yes, it is 2500 files long. This will all change in the
feature (optimization-stages), but I now took the most raw form I could
create, to make sure there were no errors on that level. So be patient,
and you will see the source becomes more and more readable over time 😉

After days of hard labour, finding nasty bugs and problem, we finally
finished the second (and most likely the last) teaser. It contains the
full intro, and most other things are sometimes working. It still
crashes a lot (with a nice crash report), we know, please don’t report
those bugs (we know about them). If you receive any other error, please
let us know ASAP.

Also we are happy to announce we got the Windows version working. It
turned out Windows and DLLs are a bad combination for projects like
this. In result we just static compiled our ‘libemu’ into the binary,
and now everything works.\
Also GCC has a nice tail-call optimization, which solved many
stack-overflow.

Besides this teaser, we also uploaded all our source the SVN. See our
homepage how to get your copy and how to start working with it. If you
want to contribute, please drop by on IRC, and we will help you on your
way.\
Either way, the files:
